# EDA-Playstore-review-app-analysis
The Play Store apps data has enormous potential to drive app-making businesses to success. Actionable insights can be drawn for developers to work on and capture the Android market. Each app (row) has values for catergory, rating, size, and more. Another dataset contains customer reviews of the android apps. Explore and analyze the data to discover key factors responsible for app engagement and success.
# Project Summary -
For any business to succeed these days, going digital has become paramount and getting an application for your business can lead it towards more profits. None of us can now imagine our lives without using apps in our mobile phones. Think of any problem you are facing in your life, you will find a solution of same in form of an app specially curated to fix the issue for you. As per latest Google Play stats, there are 3.48 million apps currently at the Google Play Store. The number is constantly rising as around 3,739 apps are added to the Play Store every single day.

Due to constant rising numbers of apps, it becomes imperative to understand the parameters and patterns related to app creation from a business point of view. The Play store datasets are quite intriguing as they consist of details like number of installations, app reviews, sentiment ploarity and so on. In this project we digged deeper into the datasets by doing an Exploratory Data Analysis to see certain patterns that can be helpful to different category of businesses.

We began by in-depth cleaning of the datasets and then we merged them to create one dataset. After that we did a generalised analysis to get numerous insights. We particularly focussed on the customer behaviour and what components affect the decision of the user to install the app. With the information gathered, we further tried to see if for medical category creating an app would be benefical. If so, what kinds of apps have a higher probability of being liked by the audience.
# Problem Statement
To perform exploratory data analysis (EDA) on the Google Playstore in order to understand the trends and patterns in app downloads, user ratings, and revenue generated by apps. Our main aim is to structure the data and then see numerous patterns and trends across different features. We will do a general study of dataset through visualisations and draw some preliminary conclusions. After that we will delve deeper into seeing the scope of medical apps and also the consumer behaviour in cased of apps related to the healthcare/medical category. Also we will make final conclusions about the probability of the success of a new app based on the gathered insights

Additionally, the EDA will also investigate any potential biases or limitations in the data, and make recommendations for further research to improve the understanding of the app market on the Playstore.

Find out the number of Apps per category
Which category of App has more installs?
Average rating of the apps
Which category of App is most popular on Play store based on Ratings
Number of Reviews per Category
What is the ratio of number of Paid apps and Free apps?
Which category of Apps from the Content Rating column are found more on playstore ?
What are the Top 10 installed apps in any category?
Distribution of apps based on its size
Top apps that are of free type
Top apps that are of paid type.
Android version based on each category
Most Revenue Generating Apps
Top Genres based on Installs
Percentage of Review Sentiments
Apps with the highest number of positive reviews
Apps with the highest number of negative reviews.
Apps with the highest number of neutral reviews.
Histogram of Subjectivity
How Content Rating affect over the App ?

# Datasets 
### **Dataset1- Playstore data**

 **1.App:**  Name of App      
 **2.Category:**  a group of apps that have similar features, functionality, and themes            
 **3.Rating:**   a score or measurement of how good or popular it is.out of 5 rating given by user      
 **4.Reviews:**  Count of reviews given by users       
 **5.Size:**    The memory size needed to install the application.          
 **6.Installs:** The number of times each application has been installed by users        
 **7.Type:**   either it is paid or free        
 **8.Price:**  if paid then price          
 **9.Content Rating**: This column specifies the intended audience for the app. Can be for teens, mature audience, or everyone.  
 **10.Genres:** The sub-category for each app. Example: for the Education category, this could be Education: Pretend Play, for example         
 **11.Last Updated:** Release date of the most recent update for the app    
 **12.Current Ver:** Current version of the app available on Play Store     
 **13.Android Ver:**The oldest version of Android OS supported by the app.  


### **Dataset2- Users rewiews**

  **1.App:**  Name of the app.                  
  **2.Translated_Review:** Either the original review in English, or a translated version if the orignal review is in another language.       
  **3.Sentiment:** The result of the sentiment analysis conducted on a review. The value is either Positive, Neutral or Negative.       
  **4.Sentiment_Polarity:** A value indicating the positivity or negativity of the sentiment, values range from -1 (most negative) to 1 (most positive). Sentiment polarity for an element defines the orientation of the expressed sentiment, i.e. it determines if the text expresses the positive, negative or neutral sentiment of the user about the entity in consideration.     
  **5.Sentiment_Subjectivity:** A value from 0 to 1 indicating the subjectivity of the review. Lower values indicate the review is based on factual information, and higher values indicate the review is based on personal or public opinions or judgements.
  
# ▶**Analysis Summary**
In this project of analyzing play store applications, we have worked on several parameters which would help AlmaBetter to do well in launching their apps on the play store.
In the initial phase, we focused more on the problem statements and data cleaning, in order to ensure that we give them the best results out of our analysis.
* Percentage of free apps = ~92%
* Percentage of apps with no age restrictions = ~82%
* Most competitive category: Family
* Category with the highest average app installs: Game
* Percentage of apps that are top rated = ~80%
* Family, Game and Tools are top three categories having 1906, 926 and 829 app count.
* Tools, Entertainment, Education, Buisness and Medical are top Genres.
* 8783 Apps are having size less than 50 MB. 7749 Apps are having rating more than 4.0 including both type of apps.
* There are 20 free apps that have been installed over a billion times.
* Minecraft is the only app in the paid category with over 10M installs. This app has also produced the most revenue only from the installation fee.
* Category in which the paid apps have the highest average installation fee: Finance
* The median size of all apps in the play store is 12 MB.
* The apps whose size varies with device has the highest number average app installs.
* The apps whose size is greater than 90 MB has the highest number of average user reviews, ie, they are more popular than the rest.
* Helix Jump has the highest number of positive reviews and Angry Birds Classic has the highest number of negative reviews.
* Overall sentiment count of merged dataset in which Positive sentiment count is 64%, Negative 22% and Neutral 13%.

  So here we come at the end of our project which is play store App Review Analysis.What we have done just take a short recap. First we have done the removal of null value from rows and columns and the same goes with the removal of duplicates from the datasets. Then we did the formatting for each of the required columns in each dataset.

After analyzing the data we conclude that App with the category Family and the genre tools are in large numbers. Also we can conclude that the number App Rating is directly proportional with the recent update. From this we can see that with all the major updates apps will get more ratings.

We can also conclude that most of the apps which are used by the users have a content rating of ‘Everyone’.

In percentage of Free and Paid App Available in the PlayStore we can assume that most apps being used by the users are Free. This shows very few users purchase Apps on playstore.

In rating vs count of App Type we conclude that rating is not get affected even if the app is paid or not but if we go on for finding the average rating we will find that free app will have less average rating compared to paid because of significantly high counts of free Apps as compared to Paid App available in App Store.

After moving forward when we performed analysis on sentiment subjectivity we found that most of the opinion on sentiment subjectivity lies high in the range 0.4 to 0.7.

When we analyzed sentiment polarity for paid and free Apps we noticed that sentiment polarity for free apps is way less than paid Apps.

In pie presenting the percentages of review sentiment we found that most of the sentiment are positive and neutral review is the lowest. Also in case finding the percentage of sentiments for top 5 Apps we found among top 5 App Category Health and Fitness has received the highest positive sentiments while Game app category has received the highest negative sentiments and Sports App Category has received the highest neutral sentiments.
 
